---
title: Creating git repositories
tags: git github 
---

Let's assume that we created an account on GitHub with user `<username>` and created a repository called `testconfigs`.

### SSH access to GitHub

* Generated public ssh key by: `ssh-keygen`
No passphrase, no name (this is important because we won't be adding this public key using `ssh-add`). Since this has the default name, the program accepts it by some accident. This needs a fix.
* Then follow this to run ssh-add:

```
eval `ssh-agent -s`
```

(Here, these are two backticks, not apostrophes). Then run:

```
ssh-add
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

* Copy this output of `id_rsa.pub` and paste it in the website's ssh-key field after logging in.

* Then check that you have ssh access to GitHub using: 

```
ssh -T git@github.com
```

(Caution: _not_ your username or id, but the username `git`)

This is most probably a routine check that you have the access. This does not give you a remote tty or you do not need to stay logged in to perform git tasks. You can probably skip this step.

* Next, update your name and email address in the config using

```
git config --global user.email "email@domain.com"
git config --global user.name "Name"
```

- To copy own ssh public key into another server's `.ssh/authorized_keys` so that you can login without password, do

```
.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh user@server 'cat >> .ssh/authorized_keys'
```

- To avoid writing the full `user@server` address, add a nickname in your `.ssh/config` like this:

```
Host nickname
   User <username>
   HostName serve.server.address
```

### To push/pull git repository without password

Change the URL origin type of your repository to an ssh-based one using:

```
git remote set-url origin git@github.com:<username>/<repository_name>.git
```

After that, any `git pull`/`push` will go through without having to enter the password.

### Creating an empty local repository

Create some empty directories in your repository, which will be your working directory. Then run: 

```
git init
```

This will create a `.git` directory inside the local repository.
Now add the address of the remote host, which we are naming `gitty`, using

```
git remote add gitty git@github.com:<username>/testconfigs
```

The repository `testconfigs` will be referred to as `gitty`.

You can see all the remote hosts by: `git remote -v`
If needed, you can delete a remote host by : `git remote rm nickname_of_host`

Now download all the files from the master branch  of `gitty` by: `git pull gitty master`
Now your working  directory  will have all the files stored in `gitty`. You can modify them, add more files etc. After modification, add the files to the modification list using:

```
git add file1
git add file2
git add file3
```

etc.

After they are added to the _changelist_, it is the time to commit to the change and add a comment about the changes:

```
git commit -m "Added file1, file2, changed file3"
```

After committing, it is time to upload the change back to the place by:

```
git push gitty master
```

(Obviously we are uploading to the master branch here)
(Here, for the first time you may be asked to enter your email id and username. Follow the instruction to add these info to the file `~/.gitconfig`)

And we are done.


## Maintaining the local repository:

Create a new repository in the website. Copy the clone address. Locally do

```
	 git clone https://github.com/username/reponame
```

Now you have a local repo.

```
        cd reponame
```

Add files/make changes e.g. `cp path/file .`
Add to the git list : 

```bash
git add file
git commit -m 'message'
git push
```

Provide username and password for your git repo.
If you don't want to enter username/password repeatedly, add a remote repo:

```
git remote add petname git@github.com:username/reponame
```

Next, push to the repo called `petname` like this

```
git push petname
```

Then you won't be asked for credentials anymore. And by default it will get pushed to the master branch .

## Adding and committing only the files that are in the `git ls-files` list:

```
git commit -am "Staging and committing all the modifications done to files in git ls-files"
```

Alternatively, `get commit -a -m text"` works.
